
# The study organism 

Our Client Hurricane Island is researching on Scallops and their growth. 
Scallop is a common name that is primarily applied to any one of numerous species of saltwater clams or marine bivalve mollusks in the taxonomic family Pectinidae, the scallops. However, the common name "scallop" is also sometimes applied to species in other closely related families within the superfamily Pectinoidea, which also includes the thorny oysters.
Scallops are a cosmopolitan family of bivalves which are found in all of the world's oceans, although never in fresh water. They are one of very few groups of bivalves to be primarily "free-living", with many species capable of rapidly swimming short distances and even of migrating some distance across the ocean floor. A small minority of scallop species live cemented to rocky substrates as adults, while others attach themselves to stationary or rooted objects such as sea grass at some point in their lives by means of a filament they secrete called a byssal thread. The majority of species, however, live recumbent on sandy substrates, and when they sense the presence of a predator such as a starfish, they may attempt to escape by swimming swiftly but erratically through the water using jet propulsion created by repeatedly clapping their shells together. Scallops have a well-developed nervous system, and unlike most other bivalves all scallops have a ring of numerous simple eyes situated around the edge of their mantles.
Many species of scallops are highly prized as a food source, and some are farmed as aquaculture. The word "scallop" is also applied to the meat of these bivalves, the adductor muscle that is sold as seafood. The brightly colored, symmetrical, fan-shaped shells of scallops with their radiating and often fluted ornamentation are valued by shell collectors, and have been used since ancient times as motifs in art, architecture, and design.
Owing to their widespread distribution, scallop shells are a common sight on beaches and are often brightly colored, making them a popular object to collect among beachcombers and vacationers. The shells also have a significant place in popular culture, including symbolism.

### Distribution and habitat
Scallops inhabit all the oceans of the world, with the largest number of species living in the Indo-Pacific region. Most species live in relatively shallow waters from the low tide line to 100 m, while others prefer much deeper water. Although some species only live in very narrow environments, most are opportunistic and can live under a wide variety of conditions. Scallops can be found living within, upon, or under either rocks, coral, rubble, sea grass, kelp, sand, or mud. Most scallops begin their lives as byssally attached juveniles, an ability that some retain throughout their lives while others grow into free-living adults.

### Some Facts about Scallops
1.	In the United States, two kinds of scallops are sold as food. Atlantic sea scallops, the larger kind, are harvested wild from the Canadian border to the mid-Atlantic and are found in shallow open waters. Smaller bay scallops are found in estuaries and bays from New Jersey to Florida. There are large scallop populations in the Sea of Japan, off the Pacific coast from Peru to Chile, and near Ireland and New Zealand. The majority of farmed scallops are from China.
2.	Unlike other bivalves such as mussels and clams, most scallops are free-swimming. They swim by clapping their shells quickly using their highly developed adductor muscle, forcing a jet of water past the shell hinge, propelling the scallop forward. They're surprisingly speedy.
3.	Scallop shells are easily recognized and have been a symbol since ancient times. The fan-shaped shells have deep ridges and two angular protrusions called auricles, one on either side of the shell's hinge. Scallop shells range in color from drab and gray to vivid and multihued.
4.	Scallops have anywhere from 50 to 100 eyes that line their mantle. These eyes may be a brilliant blue color, and they allow the scallop to detect light, dark, and motion. Compared with other mollusks, the eyes of a scallop are pretty unique. They use their retinas to focus light, a job the cornea does in human eyes.
5.	Scallops eat by filtering small organisms such as krill, algae, and larvae from the water they inhabit. As water enters the scallop, mucus traps plankton in the water, and then cilia move the food into the scallop's mouth. 
6.	Many scallops are hermaphrodites, which means that they have both male and female sex organs. Others are only male or female. Scallops reproduce by spawning, which is when organisms release eggs and sperm into the water. Once an egg is fertilized, the young scallop is planktonic before settling to the sea floor, attaching to an object with byssal threads. Most scallop species lose this byssus as they grow and become free-swimming.
### Method of Culture
There are a variety of aquaculture methods that are currently utilized for scallops. The effectiveness of particular methods depends largely on the species of scallop being farmed and the local environment.
#### Spat collection
Collection of wild spat has historically been the most common way obtaining young scallops to seed aquaculture operations. There are a variety of ways in which spat can be collected. Most methods involve a series of mesh spat bags suspended in the water column on a line which is anchored to the seafloor. Spat bags are filled with a suitable cultch (usually filamentous fibers) onto which scallop larvae will settle. Here larvae will undergo metamorphosis into post-larvae (spat). Spat can then be collected and transferred to a farm site for on-growing.
Spat collectors will be set in areas of high scallop productivity where spat numbers are naturally high. However, to establish where the most appropriate areas to collect spat are, trial collectors will often be laid at a variety of different sites. Well-funded farms can potentially set thousands of individual spat bags in collection trials.
#### Hatcheries
Scallop hatcheries provide a number of advantages over traditional spat collection for supplying seed to aquaculture operations, most notably in selective breeding and genetic manipulation, as well as providing a regular supply of spat at a low price. While initial attempts to culture scallops in hatcheries were fraught with extremely low spawning and high larval mortality rates, a number of successful techniques have now been developed.

### Impact on Environment
Contrary to common perception concerning the negative impacts of many aquaculture practices, scallop aquaculture (and indeed other shellfish aquaculture practices) in many parts of the world are considered to be a sustainable practice that can have positive ecosystem effects. This is a result of filter-feeding bivalves removing suspended solids, unwanted nutrients, silt, bacteria and viruses from the water column so to increase water clarity which, in turn, improves pelagic and benthic ecosystems, particularly by promoting growth of vegetation such as seagrasses. 
With this considered, such positive impacts are very area specific and one of the main negative environmental impacts scallop culture can create in some other areas is the eutrophication of waters. This has been well observed in Russia where culture of scallops in partially closed bays has resulted in eutrophication and so changes in species composition and structural and functional parameters of pelagic and benthic communities.

### End Product
Once scallops have been grown, harvested and processed the principal end product is the meat, which usually consists of just the adductor muscle (fresh or frozen). However, it is becoming increasingly popular to sell the muscle with the roe still attached and also to sell whole animals (primarily in North America). Thus, the industry now produces three distinguishably different products.
While the shelf life of a live scallop is limited, the marketing of this product allows scallop farmers to sell smaller animals and so increase cash flow. Top quality scallop muscle can demand a high market price, which fluctuates with production, success of wild scallop fisheries and a number of other global factors.

#### References:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scallop, 
http://www.hurricaneisland.net/science-for-everyone/2015/7/29/scallops-and-clams-and-mussels-oh-my?rq=bailey%20moritz ,
http://www.hurricaneisland.net/island-updates/ , 
https://www.themainemag.com/features/2850-hurricane-island/ , 
https://sciencetrends.com/what-exactly-are-scallops/ , 
https://www.thoughtco.com/facts-about-scallops-2291857 

